html/elements/picture/index.md, before:

{{Page_Title}}
{{Flags
|State=In Progress
|Editorial notes=Add Category, Parent,  Children information and HTML information subsection. Complete Compatibility table.
|Checked_Out=Yes
|High-level issues=Needs Review
|Content=Incomplete, Examples Needed
}}
{{Standardization_Status|W3C Editor's Draft}}
{{API_Name}}
{{Summary_Section|Control which image resource a user agent presents to a user, based on media query and/or support for a particular image format.}}
{{Markup_Element
|DOM_interface=dom/HTMLPictureElement
|Content=The '''picture''' element (<code><picture></code>) addresses use cases that are left unaddressed by the srcset attribute, the most important being art direction. 

Other use cases, such as matching media features and media types and matching on supported image formats, are also addressed by this element.

===Attributes===

This element supports the HTML5 [[html/global_attributes|global attributes]].
}}
{{Examples_Section
|Not_required=No
|Examples={{Single Example
|Language=HTML
|Description=This example shows the basic usage of the picture element for responsive images and art direction.
|Code=<picture>
  &lt;source media="(min-width: 650px)" srcset="images/kitten-large.png">
  &lt;source media="(min-width: 465px)" srcset="images/kitten-medium.png">
  <!-- img tag for browsers that do not support picture element -->
  <img src="images/kitten-small.png" alt="a cute kitten">
</picture>
|LiveURL=http://googlechrome.github.io/samples/picture-element/
}}{{Single Example
|Language=HTML
|Description='''Art direction use case:''' For browser windows with a width of 1024 CSS pixels and wider, a full-shot photo is used; smaller browser windows get a close-up photo.
|Code=<picture>
  &lt;source
    media="(min-width: 1024px)"
    srcset="opera-fullshot.jpg">
<img
  src="opera-closeup.jpg" alt="The Oslo Opera House">
</picture>
}}{{Single Example
|Language=HTML
|Description='''Different image types use case:''' Browsers that support WebP get a WebP image; other browsers get JPG.
|Code=<picture>
  &lt;source
    srcset="opera.webp"
    type="image/webp">
    <img
      src="opera.jpg" alt="The Oslo Opera House">
</picture>
}}{{Single Example
|Language=HTML
|Description='''Different image types & art direction use case:''' For browser windows with a width of 1024 CSS pixels and wider, a full-shot photo is used; smaller browser windows get a close-up photo. This photo is served as WebP to browsers that support it; other browsers get JPG.
|Code=<picture>
  &lt;source
    media="(min-width: 1024px)"
    srcset="opera-fullshot.webp"
    type="image/webp">
  &lt;source
    media="(min-width: 1024px)"
    srcset="opera-fullshot.jpg">
  &lt;source
    srcset="opera-closeup.webp"
    type="image/webp">
  <img
    src="opera-closeup.jpg" alt="The Oslo Opera House">
</picture>
}}{{Single Example
|Language=HTML
|Description='''High-DPI images & art direction use case:''' For browser windows with a width of 1024 CSS pixels and wider, a full-shot photo is used; smaller browser windows get a close-up photo. In addition, these photos are served as high-resolution images to browsers on devices with high-DPI screens; other browsers get a normal image.
|Code=<picture>
  &lt;source
    media="(min-width: 1024px)"
    srcset="opera-fullshot-1x.jpg 1x, opera-fullshot-2x.jpg 2x, opera-fullshot-3x.jpg 3x">
  <img
    src="opera-closeup-1x.jpg" alt="The Oslo Opera House"
   srcset="opera-closeup-2x.jpg 2x, opera-closeup-3x.jpg 3x">
</picture>
}}{{Single Example
|Language=HTML
|Description='''High-DPI images & different image types use case:''' Browsers on devices with high-DPI screens get an image with twice or even three times the amount of pixels; other browsers get a normal image. These photos are served as WebP to browsers that support it; other browsers get JPG.
|Code=<picture>
  &lt;source
    srcset="opera-1x.webp 1x, opera-2x.webp 2x, opera-3x.webp 3x"
    type="image/webp">
  <img
    src="opera-1x.jpg" alt="The Oslo Opera House"
    srcset="opera-2x.jpg 2x, opera-3x.jpg 3x">
</picture>
}}{{Single Example
|Language=HTML
|Description='''High-DPI images, different image types & art direction use case:''' For browser windows with a width of 1024 CSS pixels and wider, a full-shot photo is used; smaller browser windows get a close-up photo. In addition, these photos are served as high-resolution images to browsers on devices with high-DPI screens; other browsers get a normal image. They are also served as WebP to browsers that support it; other browsers get JPG.
|Code=<picture>
  &lt;source
    media="(min-width: 1024px)"
    srcset="opera-fullshot-1x.webp 1x, opera-fullshot-2x.webp 2x, opera-fullshot-3x.webp 3x"
    type="image/webp">
  &lt;source
    media="(min-width: 1024px)"
    srcset="opera-fullshot-1x.jpg 1x, opera-fullshot-2x.jpg 2x, opera-fullshot-3x.jpg 3x">
  &lt;source
    srcset="opera-closeup-1x.webp 1x, opera-closeup-2x.webp 2x, opera-closeup-3x.webp 3x"
    type="image/webp">
  <img
    src="opera-closeup-1x.jpg"
    alt="The Oslo Opera House"
    srcset="opera-closeup-2x.jpg 2x, opera-closeup-3x.jpg 3x">
</picture>
}}{{Single Example
|Language=HTML
|Description='''Changing image sizes & art direction use case:''' For browser windows with a width of 1280 CSS pixels and wider, a full-shot photo with a width of 50% of the viewport width is used; for browser windows with a width of 640-1279 CSS pixels, a photo with a width of 60% of the viewport width is used; for less wide browser windows, a photo with a width that is equal to the full viewport width is used. In each case, the browser picks the optional image from a selection of images with widths of 200px, 400px, 800px and 1200px, keeping in mind image width and screen DPI.
|Code=<picture>
  &lt;source
    media="(min-width: 1280px)"
    sizes="50vw"
    srcset="opera-fullshot-200.jpg 200w, opera-fullshot-400.jpg 400w, opera-fullshot-800.jpg 800w, opera-fullshot-1200.jpg 1200w">
  <img
    src="opera-fallback.jpg"
    alt="The Oslo Opera House"
    sizes="(min-width: 640px) 60vw, 100vw"
    srcset="opera-closeup-200.jpg 200w, opera-closeup-400.jpg 400w, opera-closeup-800.jpg 800w, opera-closeup-1200.jpg 1200w">
</picture>
}}{{Single Example
|Language=HTML
|Description='''Changing image sizes, high-DPI images, different image types & art direction use case:''' For browser windows with a width of 1280 CSS pixels and wider, a full-shot photo with a width of 50% of the viewport width is used; for browser windows with a width of 640-1279 CSS pixels, a photo with a width of 60% of the viewport width is used; for less wide browser windows, a photo with a width that is equal to the full viewport width is used. In each case, the browser picks the optional image from a selection of images with widths of 200px, 400px, 800px, 1200px, 1600px and 2000px, keeping in mind image width and screen DPI. These photos are served as WebP to browsers that support it; other browsers get JPG.
|Code=<picture>
  &lt;source
    media="(min-width: 1280px)"
    sizes="50vw"
    srcset="opera-fullshot-200.webp 200w,
        opera-fullshot-400.webp 400w,
        opera-fullshot-800.webp 800w,
        opera-fullshot-1200.webp 1200w,
        opera-fullshot-1600.webp 1600w,
        opera-fullshot-2000.webp 2000w"
    type="image/webp">
  &lt;source
    sizes="(min-width: 640px) 60vw, 100vw"
    srcset="opera-closeup-200.webp 200w,
        opera-closeup-400.webp 400w,
        opera-closeup-800.webp 800w,
        opera-closeup-1200.webp 1200w,
        opera-closeup-1600.webp 1600w,
        opera-closeup-2000.webp 2000w"
    type="image/webp">
  &lt;source
    media="(min-width: 1280px)"
    sizes="50vw"
    srcset="opera-fullshot-200.jpg 200w,
        opera-fullshot-400.jpg 400w,
        opera-fullshot-800.jpg 800w,
        opera-fullshot-1200.jpg 1200w,
        opera-fullshot-1600.jpg 1800w,
        opera-fullshot-2000.jpg 2000w">
  <img
    src="opera-fallback.jpg" alt="The Oslo Opera House"
    sizes="(min-width: 640px) 60vw, 100vw"
    srcset="opera-closeup-200.jpg 200w,
        opera-closeup-400.jpg 400w,
        opera-closeup-800.jpg 800w,
        opera-closeup-1200.jpg 1200w,
        opera-closeup-1600.jpg 1600w,
        opera-closeup-2000.jpg 2000w">
</picture>
}}
}}
{{Notes_Section
|Usage=The picture element is not a general replacement for the img element. When there is only a single image source, authors should use <code>&lt;img&gt;</code> as usual.

The picture element requires <code>&lt;source&gt;</code> nested as a child.

The picture element requires <code>&lt;img&gt;</code> nested as the last child; without the img element, <code>&lt;picture&gt;</code> will be ignored. This requirement ensures maximum accessibility and browser backwards compatibility.

For accessibility, place alternative text for all images in the <code>alt</code> attribute of the img element.
}}
{{Related_Specifications_Section
|Specifications={{Related Specification
|Name=RICG
|URL=http://picture.responsiveimages.org/
|Status=Superseded
}}{{Related Specification
|Name=WHATWG
|URL=http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/multipage/embedded-content.html#embedded-content
|Status=Living Standard
}}
}}
{{Compatibility_Section
|Not_required=No
|Imported_tables=
|Desktop_rows=
|Mobile_rows=
|Notes_rows=
}}
{{See_Also_Section
|Manual_links=* [http://docs.webplatform.org/wiki/html/elements/img &lt;img&gt; Element]
* [http://docs.webplatform.org/wiki/html/elements/source &lt;source&gt; Element]
|External_links=* [http://dev.opera.com/articles/responsive-images/ Responsive Images: Use Cases and Documented Code Snippets to Get You Started]
}}
{{Topics|DOM, HTML, Media}}
{{External_Attribution
|Is_CC-BY-SA=No
|Sources=DevOpera
|MDN_link=
|MSDN_link=
|HTML5Rocks_link=
}}

Commit message:

Revision 68490: Forgot that HTML comments need to be HTML escaped too!

html/elements/picture/index.md, after:

{{Page_Title}}
{{Flags
|State=In Progress
|Editorial notes=Add Category, Parent,  Children information and HTML information subsection. Complete Compatibility table.
|Checked_Out=Yes
|High-level issues=Needs Review
|Content=Incomplete, Examples Needed
}}
{{Standardization_Status|W3C Editor's Draft}}
{{API_Name}}
{{Summary_Section|Control which image resource a user agent presents to a user, based on media query and/or support for a particular image format.}}
{{Markup_Element
|DOM_interface=dom/HTMLPictureElement
|Content=The '''picture''' element (<code><picture></code>) addresses use cases that are left unaddressed by the srcset attribute, the most important being art direction. 

Other use cases, such as matching media features and media types and matching on supported image formats, are also addressed by this element.

===Attributes===

This element supports the HTML5 [[html/global_attributes|global attributes]].
}}
{{Examples_Section
|Not_required=No
|Examples={{Single Example
|Language=HTML
|Description=This example shows the basic usage of the picture element for responsive images and art direction.
|Code=<picture>
  &lt;source media="(min-width: 650px)" srcset="images/kitten-large.png">
  &lt;source media="(min-width: 465px)" srcset="images/kitten-medium.png">
  &lt;!-- img tag for browsers that do not support picture element -->
  <img src="images/kitten-small.png" alt="a cute kitten">
</picture>
|LiveURL=http://googlechrome.github.io/samples/picture-element/
}}{{Single Example
|Language=HTML
|Description='''Art direction use case:''' For browser windows with a width of 1024 CSS pixels and wider, a full-shot photo is used; smaller browser windows get a close-up photo.
|Code=<picture>
  &lt;source
    media="(min-width: 1024px)"
    srcset="opera-fullshot.jpg">
<img
  src="opera-closeup.jpg" alt="The Oslo Opera House">
</picture>
}}{{Single Example
|Language=HTML
|Description='''Different image types use case:''' Browsers that support WebP get a WebP image; other browsers get JPG.
|Code=<picture>
  &lt;source
    srcset="opera.webp"
    type="image/webp">
    <img
      src="opera.jpg" alt="The Oslo Opera House">
</picture>
}}{{Single Example
|Language=HTML
|Description='''Different image types & art direction use case:''' For browser windows with a width of 1024 CSS pixels and wider, a full-shot photo is used; smaller browser windows get a close-up photo. This photo is served as WebP to browsers that support it; other browsers get JPG.
|Code=<picture>
  &lt;source
    media="(min-width: 1024px)"
    srcset="opera-fullshot.webp"
    type="image/webp">
  &lt;source
    media="(min-width: 1024px)"
    srcset="opera-fullshot.jpg">
  &lt;source
    srcset="opera-closeup.webp"
    type="image/webp">
  <img
    src="opera-closeup.jpg" alt="The Oslo Opera House">
</picture>
}}{{Single Example
|Language=HTML
|Description='''High-DPI images & art direction use case:''' For browser windows with a width of 1024 CSS pixels and wider, a full-shot photo is used; smaller browser windows get a close-up photo. In addition, these photos are served as high-resolution images to browsers on devices with high-DPI screens; other browsers get a normal image.
|Code=<picture>
  &lt;source
    media="(min-width: 1024px)"
    srcset="opera-fullshot-1x.jpg 1x, opera-fullshot-2x.jpg 2x, opera-fullshot-3x.jpg 3x">
  <img
    src="opera-closeup-1x.jpg" alt="The Oslo Opera House"
   srcset="opera-closeup-2x.jpg 2x, opera-closeup-3x.jpg 3x">
</picture>
}}{{Single Example
|Language=HTML
|Description='''High-DPI images & different image types use case:''' Browsers on devices with high-DPI screens get an image with twice or even three times the amount of pixels; other browsers get a normal image. These photos are served as WebP to browsers that support it; other browsers get JPG.
|Code=<picture>
  &lt;source
    srcset="opera-1x.webp 1x, opera-2x.webp 2x, opera-3x.webp 3x"
    type="image/webp">
  <img
    src="opera-1x.jpg" alt="The Oslo Opera House"
    srcset="opera-2x.jpg 2x, opera-3x.jpg 3x">
</picture>
}}{{Single Example
|Language=HTML
|Description='''High-DPI images, different image types & art direction use case:''' For browser windows with a width of 1024 CSS pixels and wider, a full-shot photo is used; smaller browser windows get a close-up photo. In addition, these photos are served as high-resolution images to browsers on devices with high-DPI screens; other browsers get a normal image. They are also served as WebP to browsers that support it; other browsers get JPG.
|Code=<picture>
  &lt;source
    media="(min-width: 1024px)"
    srcset="opera-fullshot-1x.webp 1x, opera-fullshot-2x.webp 2x, opera-fullshot-3x.webp 3x"
    type="image/webp">
  &lt;source
    media="(min-width: 1024px)"
    srcset="opera-fullshot-1x.jpg 1x, opera-fullshot-2x.jpg 2x, opera-fullshot-3x.jpg 3x">
  &lt;source
    srcset="opera-closeup-1x.webp 1x, opera-closeup-2x.webp 2x, opera-closeup-3x.webp 3x"
    type="image/webp">
  <img
    src="opera-closeup-1x.jpg"
    alt="The Oslo Opera House"
    srcset="opera-closeup-2x.jpg 2x, opera-closeup-3x.jpg 3x">
</picture>
}}{{Single Example
|Language=HTML
|Description='''Changing image sizes & art direction use case:''' For browser windows with a width of 1280 CSS pixels and wider, a full-shot photo with a width of 50% of the viewport width is used; for browser windows with a width of 640-1279 CSS pixels, a photo with a width of 60% of the viewport width is used; for less wide browser windows, a photo with a width that is equal to the full viewport width is used. In each case, the browser picks the optional image from a selection of images with widths of 200px, 400px, 800px and 1200px, keeping in mind image width and screen DPI.
|Code=<picture>
  &lt;source
    media="(min-width: 1280px)"
    sizes="50vw"
    srcset="opera-fullshot-200.jpg 200w, opera-fullshot-400.jpg 400w, opera-fullshot-800.jpg 800w, opera-fullshot-1200.jpg 1200w">
  <img
    src="opera-fallback.jpg"
    alt="The Oslo Opera House"
    sizes="(min-width: 640px) 60vw, 100vw"
    srcset="opera-closeup-200.jpg 200w, opera-closeup-400.jpg 400w, opera-closeup-800.jpg 800w, opera-closeup-1200.jpg 1200w">
</picture>
}}{{Single Example
|Language=HTML
|Description='''Changing image sizes, high-DPI images, different image types & art direction use case:''' For browser windows with a width of 1280 CSS pixels and wider, a full-shot photo with a width of 50% of the viewport width is used; for browser windows with a width of 640-1279 CSS pixels, a photo with a width of 60% of the viewport width is used; for less wide browser windows, a photo with a width that is equal to the full viewport width is used. In each case, the browser picks the optional image from a selection of images with widths of 200px, 400px, 800px, 1200px, 1600px and 2000px, keeping in mind image width and screen DPI. These photos are served as WebP to browsers that support it; other browsers get JPG.
|Code=<picture>
  &lt;source
    media="(min-width: 1280px)"
    sizes="50vw"
    srcset="opera-fullshot-200.webp 200w,
        opera-fullshot-400.webp 400w,
        opera-fullshot-800.webp 800w,
        opera-fullshot-1200.webp 1200w,
        opera-fullshot-1600.webp 1600w,
        opera-fullshot-2000.webp 2000w"
    type="image/webp">
  &lt;source
    sizes="(min-width: 640px) 60vw, 100vw"
    srcset="opera-closeup-200.webp 200w,
        opera-closeup-400.webp 400w,
        opera-closeup-800.webp 800w,
        opera-closeup-1200.webp 1200w,
        opera-closeup-1600.webp 1600w,
        opera-closeup-2000.webp 2000w"
    type="image/webp">
  &lt;source
    media="(min-width: 1280px)"
    sizes="50vw"
    srcset="opera-fullshot-200.jpg 200w,
        opera-fullshot-400.jpg 400w,
        opera-fullshot-800.jpg 800w,
        opera-fullshot-1200.jpg 1200w,
        opera-fullshot-1600.jpg 1800w,
        opera-fullshot-2000.jpg 2000w">
  <img
    src="opera-fallback.jpg" alt="The Oslo Opera House"
    sizes="(min-width: 640px) 60vw, 100vw"
    srcset="opera-closeup-200.jpg 200w,
        opera-closeup-400.jpg 400w,
        opera-closeup-800.jpg 800w,
        opera-closeup-1200.jpg 1200w,
        opera-closeup-1600.jpg 1600w,
        opera-closeup-2000.jpg 2000w">
</picture>
}}
}}
{{Notes_Section
|Usage=The picture element is not a general replacement for the img element. When there is only a single image source, authors should use <code>&lt;img&gt;</code> as usual.

The picture element requires <code>&lt;source&gt;</code> nested as a child.

The picture element requires <code>&lt;img&gt;</code> nested as the last child; without the img element, <code>&lt;picture&gt;</code> will be ignored. This requirement ensures maximum accessibility and browser backwards compatibility.

For accessibility, place alternative text for all images in the <code>alt</code> attribute of the img element.
}}
{{Related_Specifications_Section
|Specifications={{Related Specification
|Name=RICG
|URL=http://picture.responsiveimages.org/
|Status=Superseded
}}{{Related Specification
|Name=WHATWG
|URL=http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/multipage/embedded-content.html#embedded-content
|Status=Living Standard
}}
}}
{{Compatibility_Section
|Not_required=No
|Imported_tables=
|Desktop_rows=
|Mobile_rows=
|Notes_rows=
}}
{{See_Also_Section
|Manual_links=* [http://docs.webplatform.org/wiki/html/elements/img &lt;img&gt; Element]
* [http://docs.webplatform.org/wiki/html/elements/source &lt;source&gt; Element]
|External_links=* [http://dev.opera.com/articles/responsive-images/ Responsive Images: Use Cases and Documented Code Snippets to Get You Started]
}}
{{Topics|DOM, HTML, Media}}
{{External_Attribution
|Is_CC-BY-SA=No
|Sources=DevOpera
|MDN_link=
|MSDN_link=
|HTML5Rocks_link=
}}
