Dynamic pseudo-classes classify elements on characteristics other than their name, attributes, or content, in principle characteristics that cannot be deduced from the document tree.

Dynamic pseudo-classes do not appear in the document source or document tree.

==The link pseudo-classes: <code>:link</code> and <code>:visited</code>==
User agents commonly display unvisited links differently from previously visited ones. Selectors provides the pseudo-classes <code>:link</code> and <code>:visited</code> to distinguish them:

* The <code>:link</code> pseudo-class applies to links that have not yet been visited. 
* The <code>:visited</code> pseudo-class applies once the link has been visited by the user. 

After some amount of time, user agents may choose to return a visited link to the (unvisited) ‘<code>:link</code>’ state.

The two states are mutually exclusive.

===Example:===

The following selector represents links carrying class external and already visited:

<syntaxhighlight lang="css">a.external:visited</syntaxhighlight>

<blockquote>'''Note:''' It is possible for style sheet authors to abuse the :link and :visited pseudo-classes to determine which sites a user has visited without the user's consent. </blockquote>

UAs may therefore treat all links as unvisited links, or implement other measures to preserve the user's privacy while rendering visited and unvisited links differently.

== The user action pseudo-classes :hover, :active, and :focus ==
Interactive user agents sometimes change the rendering in response to user actions. Selectors provides three pseudo-classes for the selection of an element the user is acting on.

    
* The <code>:hover</code> pseudo-class applies while the user designates an element with a pointing device, but does not necessarily activate it. For example, a visual user agent could apply this pseudo-class when the cursor (mouse pointer) hovers over a box generated by the element. User agents not that do not support interactive media do not have to support this pseudo-class. Some conforming user agents that support interactive media may not be able to support this pseudo-class (e.g., a pen device that does not detect hovering). 
* The <code>:active</code> pseudo-class applies while an element is being activated by the user. For example, between the times the user presses the mouse button and releases it. On systems with more than one mouse button, :active applies only to the primary or primary activation button (typically the "left" mouse button), and any aliases thereof. 
* The <code>:focus</code> pseudo-class applies while an element has the focus (accepts keyboard or mouse events, or other forms of input). 

There may be document language or implementation specific limits on which elements can become :active or acquire <code>:focus</code>.

These pseudo-classes are not mutually exclusive. An element may match several pseudo-classes at the same time.

Selectors doesn't define if the parent of an element that is ‘<code>:active</code>’ or ‘<code>:hover</code>’ is also in that state.

<blockquote>'''Note:''' If the ‘<code>:hover</code>’ state applies to an element because its child is designated by a pointing device, then it's possible for ‘:hover’ to apply to an element that is not underneath the pointing device.</blockquote>

===Examples:===
<syntaxhighlight lang="css">
a:link    /* unvisited links */
a:visited /* visited links */
a:hover   /* user hovers */
a:active  /* active links */
</syntaxhighlight>

An example of combining dynamic pseudo-classes:
<syntaxhighlight lang="css">
a:focus
a:focus:hover
</syntaxhighlight>

The last selector matches <code>a</code> elements that are in the pseudo-class <code>:focus</code> and in the pseudo-class <code>:hover</code>.

<blockquote>'''Note:''' An element can be both ‘<code>:visited</code>’ and ‘<code>:active</code>’ (or ‘<code>:link</code>’ and ‘<code>:active</code>’).</blockquote>

[[Category:CSS]]