{{Page_Title}}
{{Flags
|High-level issues=Needs Topics, Missing Relevant Sections, Data Not Semantic, Unreviewed Import
|Content=Incomplete, Not Neutral, Cleanup, Compatibility Incomplete, Examples Best Practices
}}
{{Standardization_Status}}
{{API_Name}}
{{Summary_Section|The text-decoration controls the underlining and striking through of text.}}
{{CSS Property
|Applies to=All elements
|Inherited=No
|Media=visual
|Animatable=No
|Values={{CSS Property Value
|Data Type=none
|Description=Default. Text has no decoration.
}}{{CSS Property Value
|Data Type=underline
|Description=Text is underlined.
}}{{CSS Property Value
|Data Type=overline
|Description=Text has a line over it.
}}{{CSS Property Value
|Data Type=line-through
|Description=Text has a line drawn through it.
}}{{CSS Property Value
|Data Type=blink
|Description=Not implemented.
}}
}}
{{Examples_Section
|Not_required=No
|Examples={{Single Example
|Description=The following examples use the '''text-decoration''' attribute and the '''text-decoration''' property to decorate text within the object.

This example uses an inline style sheet to draw a line through the text within the object.
|Code=&lt;div style{{=}}"text-decoration: line-through"&gt;
...
&lt;/div&gt;
|LiveURL=http://samples.msdn.microsoft.com/workshop/samples/author/dhtml/refs/text-decoration.htm
}}{{Single Example
|Description=This example uses inline scripting to underline the text within the '''span''' object when the user moves the mouse over the '''span'''.
|Code=&lt;span style{{=}}"font-size: 14px" onmouseover{{=}}"this.style.textDecoration{{=}}'underline'" 
    onclick{{=}}"this.style.textDecoration{{=}}'overline'" 
    ondblclick{{=}}"this.style.textDecoration{{=}}'line-through'"&gt;
...
&lt;/span&gt;
|LiveURL=http://samples.msdn.microsoft.com/workshop/samples/author/dhtml/refs/textDecoration.htm
}}{{Single Example
|Description=This example demonstrates that, though '''text-decoration''' is not inheritable, its child elements 
are formatted with the same decoration (for instance, an underline) as their 
parent. Even if descendant elements have different '''color''' values, the color of the decoration will remain the same as that of the parent element.
|Code=&lt;html&gt;
&lt;head&gt;
&lt;style type{{=}}"text/css"&gt;
.redunderline {
    color: red;
    text-decoration: underline;
}
.blueoverline {
    color: blue;
    text-decoration: overline;
}
&lt;/style&gt;
&lt;/head&gt;
&lt;body&gt;
&lt;div class{{=}}"redunderline"&gt;
    This &lt;b&gt;div&lt;/b&gt; has text decoration set to underline,
    &lt;span class{{=}}"blueoverline"&gt;but this &lt;b&gt;span&lt;/b&gt; has it set to overline.&lt;/span&gt; 
    The &lt;b&gt;div&lt;/b&gt; continues here.&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;/body&gt;
&lt;/html&gt;
|LiveURL=http://samples.msdn.microsoft.com/workshop/samples/author/dhtml/refs/textDecoration_2.htm
}}
}}
{{Notes_Section
|Notes====Remarks===
The default value is different for the following tags.
*Default value is '''underline''' for [[html/elements/a|'''a''']] when used with [[html/attributes/href|'''href''']], '''u''', and '''ins'''.
*Default value is '''line-through''' for '''strike''', '''s''', and '''del'''.

If the value '''none''' is placed at the end of the values, all values are cleared. For example, setting {'''text-decoration''': '''underline''' '''overline''' '''blink''' '''none'''} causes none of the decorations to render.
If the object has no text (for example, the '''img''' object in HTML) or is an empty object (for example, "&lt;EM&gt;&lt;/EM&gt;"), this property has no effect.
If you set the '''text-decoration''' attribute to '''none''' on the '''body''' object, the [[html/elements/a|'''a''']] objects are still underlined. To remove the underline from the '''a''' objects, either set the style inline or use '''a''' as a selector in the global style sheet.
Specifying the '''text-decoration''' property for block elements affects all inline children. If it is specified for, or affects, an inline element, it affects all boxes generated by the element.
The '''overline''' and '''blink''' possible values are available as of Microsoft Internet Explorer 4.0. Although '''blink''' is exposed, it is not rendered.
In Windows Internet Explorer 8 and later, when the '''text-decoration''' property is set to '''overline''' and/or '''underline''', the line will remain at the same vertical level and the same thickness across all child elements of the parent element on which the text decoration has been set. (This does not apply to the '''line-through''' value.) In Windows Internet Explorer 7 and earlier, the text decoration adjusts to correspond to the size and thickness of each child element.
|Import_Notes====Syntax===
<code>'''text-decoration: '''none '''{{!}}''' underline '''{{!}}''' overline '''{{!}}''' line-through '''{{!}}''' blink</code>
}}
{{Related_Specifications_Section
|Specifications=
}}
{{Compatibility_Section
|Not_required=No
|Desktop_rows=
|Mobile_rows=
|Notes_rows=
}}
{{See_Also_Section
|Topic_clusters=Text
|Manual_sections====Related pages (MSDN)===
*<code>[[css/cssom/CSSStyleDeclaration/CSSStyleDeclaration|CSSStyleDeclaration]]</code>
*<code>[[css/cssom/currentStyle|currentStyle]]</code>
*<code>[[dom/defaultSelected|defaults]]</code>
*<code>[[css/cssom/runtimeStyle|runtimeStyle]]</code>
*<code>[[css/cssom/style|style]]</code>
*<code>Reference</code>
*<code>[[css/properties/text-decoration-line-through|textDecorationLineThrough]]</code>
*<code>[[css/properties/text-decoration-none|textDecorationNone]]</code>
*<code>[[css/properties/text-decoration-overline|textDecorationOverline]]</code>
*<code>[[css/properties/text-decoration-underline|textDecorationUnderline]]</code>
}}
{{Topics|CSS}}
{{External_Attribution
|Is_CC-BY-SA=No
|Sources=MSDN
|MDN_link=
|MSDN_link=[http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ie/hh828809%28v=vs.85%29.aspx Windows Internet Explorer API reference]
|HTML5Rocks_link=
}}